The only way you can communicate with
your central nervous system, the only
way you can give your body a message to
change something is environment. You put
the body in a harsh environment and
force certain tissues to go to fatigue
or fail.
[Music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective to talk about all
kinds of things human physiology
related, medicine related, nutrition
related. And today I'm going to talk
about the fastest path to extreme muscle
growth. There's a couple things we got
to understand before we get into this.
The only way you can communicate with
your central nervous system, the only
way you can give your body a message to
change something is environment.
You put the body in a harsh environment
and force certain tissues to go to
fatigue or fail as it as it is as in
they cannot continue what you are
attempting to put them through. So this
is true of bone, this is true of muscle,
this is true of the skin on your hand
where you build a callus. So there are
certain tissues that have ad these are
called adaptive responses. So you have
to create a stressful environment for
the musculature very specifically so
that it determines that it needs to go
through all the different types of
growth that I discussed in the how
muscles grow video from a few weeks
back. Now the greatest way to accomplish
this is through variable resistance and
I want you to watch this video. So, here
we have me performing a chest press
movement. Now, you can see as I'm
pushing away from myself, I I'm using
the Parapforce 2 bands at peak as as I'm
extending my arm, it's right around 400
lb. And so,
here I am at six repetitions. Now, we're
counting the number of times. Now, keep
in mind this is a first set. We're
counting the number of times that I go
to momentary muscular failure. So, now
you'll notice the first point of failure
is almost a full extension. Then I
shorten because I can't get to full
extension. I have to do a shorter range
of motion. So, as I continue to go to
failure each time, you can see that in
that process, I go to momentary muscular
failure six different times in that one
set with a fresh muscle that's full of
glycogen. Because really, what you want
is the greatest amount of stress with a
fresh muscle that's that's at its
maximum capacity. Because just doing set
after set when you don't have a lot of
glycogen in the musculature, that's
called junk volume. Like, yeah, it's
exercise, but you're not going to get
much out of it because you're not
capable of taking that tissue to fatigue
because the fuels that are supposed to
be there, the glycogen, the ATP, the
creatine phosphate, the three fuel
systems that are within the muscle are
all depleted already. So you're you're
just not going to get a great
performance. And by instead using
variable resistance to move all of that
work up front, you get a much more
powerful stimulus and the body will
respond probably like you wouldn't
believe. Way beyond what you would see
with regular weight training. That's
what the studies demonstrate. And uh if
boy if you have any questions, please
ask them in the discussion section. And
if you want to argue with any of the
research, please site other research. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.